[Keith] Koku.
Let me give you
one piece of advice.
Whatever happens,
you mustn't
go near the Jetblack.
Why not?
The black-winged king,
who was called a god
because of his power,
was killed on that spot
by the human who would become
this country's first ruler.
Whenever someone
who always wins loses,
there's a reason behind it.
-[Koku] A reason?
-[Keith] Yeah.
The Jetblack more than likely
siphons off
your ability to regenerate.
Listen to me.
Whatever happens,
don't let yourself
get lured to that place.
[crying]
What sort of tears are these?
Frustration? Pain?
Despair?
Or maybe sadness.
This moment's the only reason
I've kept you alive until now.
The two of you
will meet your end here,
just as it is ordained
in the inscription.
Then...
the legend of a new king
will be born,
and I'll etch that
into the inscription.
[woman vocalizing]
[Gilbert]
This is what it boils down to.
What if a vaccine were incubated
using Minatsuki's body
and, from that experiment,
a treatment that could stabilize
the Reggies was developed?
Then I suppose the public
would receive an interesting
piece of information,
namely that the funds raised
for reviving gods
was used to make living weapons.
Moreover, everyone will learn
that the military oversaw it
and will know the name
of the head of development,
Albert Puzo, your father.
I saw his corpse on display
in that room of yours.
In his later years, my father
was starting to come around
to Dr. Kazama's point of view.
Perhaps in his old age,
he grew sentimental.
[Gilbert] If anyone understands
what I'm talking about,
it's you.
What a country truly requires
isn't gods or medicines.
In cities around the world,
incredible weapons
are hiding as humans.
When signaled,
they'll slaughter everyone
until they themselves die.
It is the fear of Reggies
that keeps this country safe.
[Keith] Then why did you
keep Minatsuki alive?
It certainly wasn't out
of kindness or some noble cause.
After you finish
killing your prey,
you get Minatsuki
to brainwash a Reggie
and frame him as the killer,
and then Market Maker
tidies up any bread crumbs.
An ideal system,
one you can't walk away from.
Keith Flick,
the man who knows all,
godlike, the prodigy, Genie.
You think you know everything,
don't you?
However, in actuality,
you're exactly like me.
You made contact with him
to exploit him.
You've only been using
that monster, Koku.
There you are, Koku.
[shudders]
K-Koku.
Yuna.
I must say
you took longer than expected.
Yuna...
what have you done to her?!
Oh, don't worry about that.
She isn't dead yet.
Her death will come, though,
and you'll bear witness
as I snuff out her life.
[Koku grunting]
[screams]
Don't you dare
compare me to you.
Using deceit and exploitation
for your own benefit
are your defining traits.
It's what you are.
There's no regret
or remorse in you.
The instant
you feel a twinge of guilt,
you create
a separate personality.
By suppressing the first
personality and erasing it,
you reset your emotions
back to zero.
You shift your flaw
of having to kill to survive
onto someone else,
which is how you've managed
to stave off
a complete mental breakdown.
[chuckles]
The real monster here
isn't Koku or even Minatsuki.
The real monster...
is you, Gilbert.
What's wrong?
Your body not doing
what you tell it to do?
As long as you remain here,
those injuries
aren't going to heal.
This hallowed ground
is for endings and beginnings,
although it only
comes to the aid
of those who have completely
accepted their destiny.
[Gilbert]
I knew if I left a trail
of illogical
and unsolvable puzzles,
you wouldn't be able
to resist taking the bait.
The inscription's legends
are the ultimate motif,
a fantastical story,
the tragedies surrounding it.
As a result,
you found yourself trapped
within the labyrinth
I constructed.
The mystery grows
with each puzzle solved,
and you fall ever deeper,
deeper, deeper,
and what you discover
at the bottom
is darkness
as black as velvet...
devoid of love,
a world of nothingness.
Keith Flick...
all of this is about you.
They are all vignettes
with the sole purpose
of driving you
headlong into action.
You would be tormented, suffer,
and fumble for answers.
Then you'd step into my world
entirely of your own volition.
You would look at me with eyes
overflowing with hatred,
and when I witness
that exquisite moment,
that will be
the ultimate pleasure,
one surpassing even murder.
[Koku] Are you kidding me?
To hell with destiny.
As if I would ever allow myself
to be the plaything
of something like that!
[gasps]
Whatever happens,
I swear to you,
I'll protect Yuna to the end!
[groaning]
Is that it?
You could at least fight back.
You're going to fight destiny?
I'd like to see you try it.
Face it.
You don't know anything.
[Minatsuki and Gilbert] Like
the cycle of death and rebirth,
it will repeat itself,
continuing forever.
[Gilbert] Inside our memories,
Erika has a new beginning.
So, in the end, that's
the reason you did all this?
That's your answer?
[sighs]
[Gilbert]
You enjoyed it, too, yes?
Each time you solved a riddle,
your cells momentarily
overcame their grief,
and you enjoyed it,
basked in it.
I wanted to make you see
what I've always seen...
that you and I are the same.
Go on. Shoot me.
Shoot me, Keith.
Come again?
Are you sure about that?
Yes. He told me himself.
You're kidding.
Erika's body had cedar
and pine pollen covering it.
Believe it or not,
Gilbert's the one
-who leaked that information.
-You're right.
This island's the only place
where both of those grow wild.
But if that's the case--
That's why
I need to know for certain.
This whole mess
was set into motion
by theatrics orchestrated
by Gilbert,
which means, if I'm right,
we're still being manipulated
as part of his horror story.
Operate with that in mind.
We clear? Stay focused!
[team] Roger that!
I'm done with all of this.
I'm not playing
your little game any longer.
Then what are you
planning to do?
Do you remember it?
It was a summer day,
just before graduation.
When I asked if there was
anything in this world
you didn't understand,
you immediately answered
with, "Murder."
You rejected it as being equal
to refusing rational thought.
I saw you
genuinely despise something.
As we sat there,
it felt as though you were
personally rejecting me.
I shed tears
for the first time ever.
-[Boris] Lily!
-[Mario] Lily! Lily, wait!
Don't go in there on your own!
[Eric] Take a gun, Lily!
[Gilbert]
You're not the only one.
I loved Erika
with everything I had.
As long as I had her by my side,
I could fend off my madness,
or so I thought.
But...
[Erika] Keith!
You know why I did it,
don't you, Keith?
Erika had fallen in love.
However, she'd done so with
a man that she shouldn't have.
I had no choice.
What's the matter?
Pull the trigger. Do it.
If you hesitate,
you know I'll do it again.
Those you love most,
those who owe
their existence to you...
[gags]
all the lives
that have ever touched yours,
I'll make them my playthings
and extinguish them one by one.
[Lily, thinking]
Keith, don't shoot him.
I'm going to carve
an indelible code into you.
You're under arrest,
Gilbert Ross.
If you want to shoot, do it.
It doesn't matter what happens.
I'll never become like you.
[Keith] You lose.
[Gilbert]
You don't seem to understand.
[footsteps echoing]
[gasps]
Who will be the first one
to get here?
No.
Lily, maybe?
Just give up, Keith.
It's over.
You know it's already over.
No, Gilbert. Don't you dare.
[Lily] Keith!
[Keith] Don't do it!
[gunshot]
[Gilbert] I started all this
to bring it to an end.
[gunshot echo fades]
A little bit more.
It will all be over,
just as it says
in the inscription.
As soon as I dig out
that other eye of yours,
I will send you to Heaven
to join your friends.
My friends aren't dead.
They're not.
What?
-They're still alive.
-[child] We're still alive.
-Dr. Kazama...
-[child #2] We're all in here.
entrusted me
with all of their futures.
It's the entire reason I was
created in the first place.
-Not dead.
-[child #3] We'll be together...
They are all alive
inside of me.
-Their consciousness...
-[child #4] We'll keep you safe.
-their memories...
-Trust us, Koku.
they're all inside of me.
-You don't know.
-[children] You don't know.
[Koku and children]
You don't understand anything.
[Koku] I have-- Yuna and I
have the duty of carrying them
into the future.
That's our obligation.
I won't let you or
even destiny stand in the way.
It seems playtime's over.
[Koku gasping]
Wait.
Wait!
[gags]
[crying]
[woman vocalizing]
Yuna, I now forgive you
for all your sins.
[muffled gasping]
[muffled scream]
Yuna!
Koku.
[Koku gasping]
Yuna!
[yells]
[Koku groans]
[Minatsuki] Tonight,
the ancient legend will end,
and in its place,
a new tale will begin.
At last,
your roles are now over.
I'll make you pay for this,
if it's the last thing
I ever do!
This is farewell,
dear black-winged king.
[gasps]
Why are you retreating?
You don't have any more weapons
to fight with.
Give in to your destiny!
[Izanami] Do yourself a favor,
and cut off my left leg.
It'll be useful to you someday.
That's Izanami's blade.
[Gilbert] I gave serious thought
to killing you,
but I decided against it.
It would be rash
and indeed the cessation
of rational thought.
So it occurred to me
that I should instead test you.
I would test whether or not
certain circumstances
would drive Keith Flick
to commit murder
or if his thoughts
were set in stone.
This would be
a grand experiment.
Fantasies
that defy comprehension
would relentlessly assail
a realist like him.
The tragedy
that bound it together
would gnaw away
at Keith Flick's mind and soul.
His neurons would begin
to grow agitated,
and his soul,
now ruled by madness,
would whisper to him...
"Just pull the trigger."
I wanted to see that moment
from a front-row seat
and etch it into my memory.
I would force you to kill me.
The four seconds for the brain
to cease function
after the shot rings out and
the cranium is penetrated
would be the ultimate moment,
savored only by the two of us.
Keith...
morning will come to the world,
regardless of my being there.
As you bask in the light
of the morning sun,
I will be reborn
in your memory.
I will live on inside of you.
An indelible code
will be etched into you.
A new legend will begin,
one about us.
[Kaela] Good morning.
Gimme the usual.
Today's the day, huh?
[Boris grumbles]
You think Keith
is really gonna show or bail?
Didn't Lily go to get him?
Things'll turn out just fine.
[Boris] It'll probably be fine
Lily's the reason
I'm worried to begin with.
-Then you go and see to things.
-Yeah, go out there,
and do it yourself, you
prematurely balding meathead.
[Mario winces]
-[grunts]
-Hey, there, Mario!
-How's your morning going?
-[angry muttering]
-He actually left.
-[Brandon] What's going on?
-Ignore him.
-Ah, well.
I guess this means things
are getting back to normal.
-[Brandon] Hey, guys...
-When this began,
people talked
about Market Maker,
Jaula Blanca, "bad cops."
There was a worldwide ruckus
over the whole mess.
[Brandon]
...ticking time bomb...
It's quiet again
after only three months.
Would you stop ignoring me?!
That's just the way
we human beings are wired.
We get bored easily
and also forget.
-That's why we can start over.
-I know, but there's still
a ton of loose ends
that needs to be tied up.
Yes, you're right.
Which is exactly why
he's coming all the way back
from headquarters.
That may be,
but I can't shake the feeling
that once Keith gets back,
we're gonna be up to our ears
in disturbing incidents again.
[Brandon] Why are
you being so mean?!
-I can hardly wait for it.
-You scare me.
Knock! Knock, knock, knock,
knock, knock,
knock, knock, knock...
Knock it off!
Just come in, would you?
Lovely morning!
Fresh from Matsuya!
You don't make music
by knocking on the door
I did it with
a half-time shuffle today!
You don't do anything right,
do you?
And... up.
COULDN'T DO IT AT ALL
Hmm? Hmm?
They left already.
What?!
What are you talking about?
I even bought two extra.
I don't know!
If that's all you wanted,
get outta here.
Are you serious? Today's your
first day back at the office!
Boris gave me direct orders
to drag you in,
even if I had to slap a leash
on your face!
Therefore, I went out
and bought a rope!
Agh! My rope!
Isn't it great?
What the hell is it?
I took the liberty
of buying myself a '58.
I know she looks pretty dainty,
but I swapped out
her engine for a 356
and customized the exhaust
manifold to do 140--
-Hey, wait!
-I can't fit into that, idiot.
-I'm walking.
-Do as you're told,
or else I'm
getting the rope again!
Be grateful when someone
offers you a lift.
Oh, shut up.
[Lily] I should have
asked earlier.
Hmm?
About Erika.
-Adopted.
-I knew it.
She didn't look
anything like you.
'Scuse me?
Forget it. It's nothing.
You know, something's been on
my mind for a little while now.
What?
He died
with a smile on his face.
I've been trying to figure out
the emotion behind it,
but I can't seem to come up
with an answer.
[Lily] Satisfaction?
Superiority?
[engine revs]
[Keith] What else would it be?
Gratitude.
This is gonna
sound way out there,
but what if Gilbert wanted
to finally put an end
to his madness,
but the multiple personalities
rattling around in his head
wouldn't let him?
Basically, he was
no longer in control of himself.
Maybe he put his destiny
in your hands, you know?
And in the end, when it
came to stopping his madness
once and for all,
he entrusted that role
to Keith Flick, who's the one
and only person superior to him.
And you arrived at that place
just as he hoped you would
and pulled the trigger,
releasing him from his pain.
There's only
one thing I know for sure.
Gilbert's the real winner
in all this.
You're saying you're
not frustrated or anything?
Huh? Should I be?
Well, isn't that essentially
the same as admitting defeat?
Oh. I couldn't give a damn
about stuff like that.
Are you sure?
To be honest, winning and losing
were never that important,
not to me and him.
One sets out a puzzle.
The other solves it.
That's all it was,
nothing more than that.
What matters now is how hectic
things are gonna get at work.
-The way I see it...
-[gasps]
-we're in--
-[yells]
[Keith grunts]
[car horn honks]
[Lily] Hey, Koku! hey, Yuna!
-[Yuna] Lily!
-Do the two of you want a lift?
-[Yuna] Yes, we do!
-[Keith] How?!
-There's no room!
-They'll fit! They'll fit!
-We'll fit, Koku!
-[Koku] We'll never fit.
[Keith] Hey, we're on our way
to the station house.
-[Lily] Let's blow it off!
-[Yuna] Get in! Get in!
There's somewhere
That we belong
And God
Has never played his role
'Cause I'm the one
Who saves my soul
It's a perfect world
We're longing for
So long
Cursing shadows
Hunt and gather
In the city of no answer
As we follow
Endless questions
Hands up
In the same reflection
Sometimes we try to feel
How things just used to be
In yesterdays
Now or never,
Make it better...
I hate to say I told you so,
but this is what you get when
you leave things to a Reggie.
I'll go this time.
I need to get my left arm back
from him anyway.
[man] Have it your way,
but don't screw this up,
Kirisame.
I told you that we'd see
each other again, Koku.
Subtitle translation By David Fleming